README.md, before:

# ca65 Assembly for Visual Studio Code

Provides basic LSP-backed language support for the **ca65** assembler.

## Features

This extension provides a full-featured language server to make writing `ca65` assembly a modern and productive experience.

* **ca65-backed Diagnostics:**
    * Live validation by running `ca65` in the background and applying the error output to the corresponding lines in the editor.
* **Code Navigation:**
    * **Go to Definition:** Jump directly to the definition of any label, constant, macro, or scope. Works across local, included, and workspace-exported symbols.
    * **Find All References:** Quickly find all usages of a symbol across the entire workspace.
    * **Call Hierarchy:** See who calls a procedure/label (`Incoming Calls`) and who a procedure/label calls (`Outgoing Calls`).  by `jsr` and `jmp` mnemonics.
    * **Outline view:** Symbols defined in a file are displayed in the `OUTLINE` view in the side panel.
* **Code Intelligence:**
    * **Rich Hover Information:** Hover over any symbol, directive, or 6502 mnemonic to see its definition, documentation, and scope context.
    * **Autocompletion:** Get completion suggestions for all accessible symbols, including local, included, and imported labels and macros. If a label is exported somewhere else in the workspace but not yet imported, the autocompletion will also automatically add an `.import` or `.include` statement at the top of the file.
    * **Import tracing:** Import statements will have an inlay hint displaying the file the symbol is imported from.
    * **Anonymous label indexing:** Anonymous labels (declared with a single `:`) will be assigned a unique index value, which will be displayed next to the declaration as an inlay hint. The same index will display next to each relative reference to the label (i.e. with `:++`, `:--` etc) 
* **Editor Features:**
    * **Syntax Highlighting:** Basic TextMate grammar for ca65 syntax.
    * **Snippets:** Snippets for commonly used directives like `.proc` and `.macro`, which expand with their respective closing statements.
    * **Code Folding and sticky scroll:** Fold regions of code like `.proc`, `.scope`, `.struct`, and other blocks. The last folding region's starting line will display at the top of the screen as a sticky scroll anchor.
    * **Instruction reference page:** A list of 6502 instructions with basic descriptions is available via the `ca65: Show Instruction Reference` command in the command prompt (`ctrl+shift+p`)
    
## Known Limitations

* Diagnostics are powered solely via `ca65`'s `stderr`, so they may be limited in detail, and they do not provide any diagnostics about the linking step.
* The LSP is agnostic to the actual build command your project uses. This means all exported symbols may be imported by any other file in the workspace, and only the default path is used for `.include` statements.
* Macro expansion is entirely opaque to the LSP, so symbols/scopes/syntax that are affected by macro expansion will not be visible to the LSP.
* Symbols with multiple definitions will always resolve to the first definition in the same file.
* Symbol refs will always resolve to the symbol even if a macro is declared with the same name after it's declaration.
* Auto-completion in the operand will only suggest symbols -- it will not suggest `struct`s in a `.tag` or `.sizeof` command
* Anonymous structs are not handled to spec (the spec adds the members to an anonymous scope, but `ca65` actually adds them to the parent scope).

## Pre-requisites
You must provide the `ca65` in your system's `PATH` in order for diagnostics to work.

## Installation

You can install this extension from the [Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=hobbett.ca65-vscode-extension).

Alternatively, in VS Code, open the **Extensions** view (`Ctrl+Shift+X`), search for `ca65 Assembly`, and click **Install**.


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Update README to include ca65 path setting info

README.md, after:

# ca65 Assembly for Visual Studio Code

Provides basic LSP-backed language support for the **ca65** assembler.

## Features

This extension provides a full-featured language server to make writing `ca65` assembly a modern and productive experience.

* **ca65-backed Diagnostics:**
    * Live validation by running `ca65` in the background and applying the error output to the corresponding lines in the editor.
* **Code Navigation:**
    * **Go to Definition:** Jump directly to the definition of any label, constant, macro, or scope. Works across local, included, and workspace-exported symbols.
    * **Find All References:** Quickly find all usages of a symbol across the entire workspace.
    * **Call Hierarchy:** See who calls a procedure/label (`Incoming Calls`) and who a procedure/label calls (`Outgoing Calls`).  by `jsr` and `jmp` mnemonics.
    * **Outline view:** Symbols defined in a file are displayed in the `OUTLINE` view in the side panel.
* **Code Intelligence:**
    * **Rich Hover Information:** Hover over any symbol, directive, or 6502 mnemonic to see its definition, documentation, and scope context.
    * **Autocompletion:** Get completion suggestions for all accessible symbols, including local, included, and imported labels and macros. If a label is exported somewhere else in the workspace but not yet imported, the autocompletion will also automatically add an `.import` or `.include` statement at the top of the file.
    * **Import tracing:** Import statements will have an inlay hint displaying the file the symbol is imported from.
    * **Anonymous label indexing:** Anonymous labels (declared with a single `:`) will be assigned a unique index value, which will be displayed next to the declaration as an inlay hint. The same index will display next to each relative reference to the label (i.e. with `:++`, `:--` etc) 
* **Editor Features:**
    * **Syntax Highlighting:** Basic TextMate grammar for ca65 syntax.
    * **Snippets:** Snippets for commonly used directives like `.proc` and `.macro`, which expand with their respective closing statements.
    * **Code Folding and sticky scroll:** Fold regions of code like `.proc`, `.scope`, `.struct`, and other blocks. The last folding region's starting line will display at the top of the screen as a sticky scroll anchor.
    * **Instruction reference page:** A list of 6502 instructions with basic descriptions is available via the `ca65: Show Instruction Reference` command in the command prompt (`ctrl+shift+p`)
    
## Known Limitations

* Diagnostics are powered solely via `ca65`'s `stderr`, so they may be limited in detail, and they do not provide any diagnostics about the linking step.
* The LSP is agnostic to the actual build command your project uses. This means all exported symbols may be imported by any other file in the workspace, and only the default path is used for `.include` statements.
* Macro expansion is entirely opaque to the LSP, so symbols/scopes/syntax that are affected by macro expansion will not be visible to the LSP.
* Symbols with multiple definitions will always resolve to the first definition in the same file.
* Symbol refs will always resolve to the symbol even if a macro is declared with the same name after it's declaration.
* Auto-completion in the operand will only suggest symbols -- it will not suggest `struct`s in a `.tag` or `.sizeof` command
* Anonymous structs are not handled to spec (the spec adds the members to an anonymous scope, but `ca65` actually adds them to the parent scope).

## Pre-requisites
You must provide the `ca65` in your system's `PATH` in order for diagnostics to work.
Otherwise, you may also set setting `ca65.executablePath` to the absolute path of your `ca65` executable.

## Installation

You can install this extension from the [Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=hobbett.ca65-vscode-extension).

Alternatively, in VS Code, open the **Extensions** view (`Ctrl+Shift+X`), search for `ca65 Assembly`, and click **Install**.


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
